# BitDust Roles and Coins

#### IN PROGRESS ...



## Coins


### Fuel

BitDust "fuel" tokens will be mined by Miners with Proof of Work and stored on blockchain in a usual way.
Have something simillar to Ethereum "gas".



### Token

BitDust "token" represents finished "contract" between two nodes.

Every time one node give resources to another node they start a new "relation" and make a "deal" which is crypto-signed in a simple json-formatted contract that can be stored inside one single transaction on blockchain.

To generate a new BitDust "token", one node must posses some "fuel" on the account and will publish a "new token" on blockchain. Both nodes must "finish" the contract gracefully - second node must "confirm" it.

All transactions with "tokens" on blockchain will have to pass an extra "token validation" layer - every node in the network will validate each and every new token created - it also can reject it.




### Coin

BitDust "coin" represents "paid contract" for given amount of resources.
Every such "coin" is linked to a list of already existing "tokens" and total value of the "coin" depend on values of all included "tokens".

Those "coins" can be transferred from one BitDust node to another node, or traded on exchanges for real money or other cryptos.

All transactions with "coins" on blockchain will have to pass an extra "coin validation" layer - every node in the network will validate each and every new coin generated - it also can reject it.

In short - BitDust "coin" can be generated by "consuming" some of existing "tokens" and also requires "fuel" for that.



## Roles


### Customer

Consume resources from other nodes: storage, network traffic, CPU time.

Pay with real money or BitDust "coins" to other nodes: suppliers, traffic routers.



### Supplier

Donate part of own HDD/SSD drive to other nodes so that they can store something here.
Generate/farm BitDust "tokens" when he have some active contracts with other customers.
Able to sell "tokens" for "coins".
Able to sell "coins" for real money.



### Router (Proxy Server)

Help other nodes to connect each other and send/receive packets: re-route network traffic.
Help other nodes to "hide" real IP address.
Generate/farm BitDust "tokens" when he have some active contracts with other nodes.
Able to sell "tokens" for "coins".
Able to sell "coins" for real money.



### Rebuilder

Help other suppliers to reconstruct "missed" fragments so that they will be able to join customer family.
Receive BitDust "tokens" from suppliers after successfully rebuilt data for given customer.
Able to sell "tokens" for "coins".
Able to sell "coins" for real money.



### Miner

Help other nodes to get read-access to blockchain.
Mine BitDust "fuel" on blockchain.
Publish "token" and "coin" transactions on blockchain for other nodes.
Give "fuel" to all other nodes and take fee in "tokens" from other nodes.
Able to sell "tokens" for "coins".
Able to sell "coins" for real money.



### Merchant

Help other nodes to "buy/sell" BitDust resources for crypto-currencies or real money.
Able to receive BitDust "tokens", "coins", other crypto-currencies or real money from other nodes.
Able to send BitDust "coins", other crypto-currencies or real money to other nodes.
Able to "produce" a new "coin" from existing "tokens" - must posses some "fuel" on the account first.




## Q.A.

#### What is the difference between a token and a coin or are they the same?

In short: tokens are issued by suppliers but coins are issued by merchants.
Idea is to establish direct connection between tokens and coins but make possible to trade only coins.
So we probably only want to make possible to change token for coin, but not vise versa.

